---
layout: post
title: "Congratulations! My research project has been accepted in 2024AAPM General Poster Discussion on 6 May 2024"
author: "Peilin Wang"
categories: RP
tags: [RP,documentation]
image: paper3-1.jpg
---

# Anatomy-based Registration Workflow for Robust High-Quality Abdominal 4D-MRI
<br/>

## Purpose
Deep-learning registration-based workflows have shown significant potential in generating fast and high-quality abdominal four-dimensional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (4D-MRI). However, these workflows still have limited generalizability, primarily due to variations in modalities and contrasts of images across different hospitals and facilities. To overcome this deficiency, this study aims to develop an anatomy-based deformable registration workflow (ADRW) for robust 4D-MRI generation.

## Methods
In ADRW, 400 images generated by XCAT phantom with random transformations in each training iteration are utilized as training data. The random transformations, including but not limited to intricate respiratory patterns, contrasts, as well as noises, ensure coverage of various registration scenarios across different hospitals and facilities. A mask-based metric, Laplace Dice Score, is utilized as the loss function. High-quality 3D T1-weighted (T1-w) image is aligned with every frame of the low-quality 4D-MRI using ADRW to generate high-quality 4D-MRI. Two datasets from different centers, consisting of 32 patients from the Beijing Cancer Hospital and 8 patients from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, are utilized to validate the performance of ADRW.

## Results
The ADRW was trained with 3000 iterations, resulting in 6x105 randomly transformed images used for model training. All the patients underwent a high-quality 3D T1-w image and a series of low-quality 4D-MRI with respiratory motion. The results indicate that ADRW can generate high-quality 4D-MRI with accurate respiratory motion and stable organ structures. In comparison with the VoxelMorph-based workflow (VxmW) using NMI in external validation, ADRW achieves a median score of 0.42918, surpassing VxmW's score of 0.40695.

## Conclusion
ADRW successfully generated high-quality 4D-MRI, and has better performance compared with VxmW in external validation. Its improved generalizability and rapid processing render it highly valuable clinically, with potential applications spanning image analysis, disease diagnosis, high-dose abdominal radiotherapy, and beyond.



